When you and I received new literature at conventions or in the Kingdom Hall, we always marvel at the work that goes into producing our magazines and other publications, the well-written articles, the beautiful artwork and how it builds our faith.
But how often do we think about the efforts involved in getting the literature from Bethel to the hands of the publishers?
Join us as we visit the shipping department at the Canada branch to learn more.
If you talk to a man in a language he understands, it will reach his mind.
But if you talk to him in his mother tongue, you will not only reach the mind, but the heart.
That's why we print our magazines in so many different languages.
For example, someone in your congregation may request a magazine in Subwano.
In Canada, we print dozens of languages, but Subwano isn't one of them.
It's printed in Japan. After it's printed, it's put into a box.
Customs paperwork is filled out, and it travels thousands of miles on a boat where we receive it in Canada.
And that's the journey of just one magazine.
We have hundreds that have to take the same trip.
Each magazine is hand-picked by five or six people.
They'll fill over 20,000 congregation orders in a couple of weeks.
Every order is checked for accuracy.
You don't forget the fact that each order you fill represents a person that has specifically asked for that magazine.
Hundreds of thousands of personal orders will be filled.
No other organization does this.
Goes to these lengths and to this expense to fill a handful of orders in some exotic language.
But Jehovah's people do because we care about every single person who wants to hear the good news.
Along with those finished cards, many items are printed and set aside to be merged together later.
It all starts in local congregations.
Orders are placed and are later submitted online.
They're processed and automated machines count them out.
This is where our work starts.
In order to complete each request, it takes a team of about a dozen people working together.
First of all, a worker cartons and puts a label on the box.
The label contains all the information that's needed for that order and each person references it as the work is done.
The foreign magazines that were prepared earlier are added.
Then we add Kingdom Ministries, study edition watchtowers, as well as CDs and large print magazines.
The work is hard and it doesn't let up.
It's challenging to maintain the focus that you need.
You want every order to be perfect.
We all do.
At the same time, you realize that everyone else is relying on you to keep up.
It would be easy to look at the work as just a production line filled with hard workers.
But there's a camaraderie here.
And a recognition that what we're doing will have an impact on people's lives.
The first watchtower had a total circulation of 6,000 copies.
One palette today may contain up to 50,000 magazines.
One palette.
In our warehouse during the peak periods, many hundreds of palettes will be stored.
Waiting to be shipped?
We have well over a million pounds of literature during that time.
There can be as many as four trucks a day leaving with finished palettes,
blanketing all of North America.
Others will go by train, plane, and boat to lands all over the earth.
The growth of the work is staggering.
And you get to glimpse the scope of it when you work here.
It's a privilege to be the last ones to work with the literature before it leaves for its destination.
But we're just one branch out of many doing work on this scale.
In the United States, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, South Africa, Nigeria, Germany, Britain, Australia,
Japan, India, and Korea, palettes and containers are going out to the field every day.
And all of this starts with a single roll of paper.
Paper that was transformed into life-changing material.